# My craving for a better YouTube

When I open up YouTube, the algorithm and my subscriptions are an absolute mess. Why should I watch all kinds of fail compilations? I mean, they are funny, but do they bring any value to my life? No.
	
It slowly became clearer that I wanted a better YouTube alternative, so I started searching. But here is the problem: there is no better YouTube alternative. The only serious ones are [Odysee](https://odysee.com/) and [Peertube](https://joinpeertube.org/), and both of those have the exact same problem: content.
	
Odysee is reasonably large, and if you like a lot of Linux/privacy content, you might stick here for a while, but the majority of the content is typical content of a 40-year-old male having a half-on-half midlife crisis in his garage with all kinds of DIY tools-not my vibe-and we haven't even talked about all the gun-related content. The UI/UX experience is, let's just say, a bit messy. The UI is very much usable and does its job reasonably well, but it has far less polish than the YouTube UI. There is sadly also a lot of crypto involved, "Web 3 Decentralization" and stuff. If this is your vibe, great, you found yourself a better alternative. If not, let's try PeerTube.
	
Oh man, the Peertube experience. It is... let's just say, not so clean. When you first try to make an account, you'd expect the main landing page, [joinpeertube.org](joinpeertube.org) to show a big sign-up button, right? Nope. And here comes the beauty of decentralization: Peertube is part of the Fediverse, an open and decentralized alternative to big tech social media. Things like [Mastodon](https://joinmastodon.org/), [Loops](https://joinloops.org/), and [Pixelfed](https://pixelfed.org/) are a part of it, so there is no central company involved, and where most Fediverse social media have a central server, Peertube has none. It wasn't easy to find a list of instances you can join-it's quite hidden in the UI-but hey, I found it at [this link](https://joinpeertube.org/instances), and even then, it wasn't easy to find a proper instance. Many of them don't allow open registration, and there is no way to filter for that. The language selector is also completely broken and didn't filter out non-English instances. The best I could find is [GNU/Linux Tube](https://gnulinux.tube/), but I couldn't just make an account-I have to request one and go through this whole process explaining why I wanted to use the platform: what do you think yourself? To watch videos and manage subscriptions maybe? I kinda got frustrated and quit, and so I declared an end to the amazing search for a YouTube alternative.
	
At least, I thought so. As I am a massive Linux nerd, I was searching for a native client for YouTube on Linux. Google is such a small adorable company that they don't have the engineering money to develop something so incredible, so instead I turned to the open-source community, and specifically [Pipeline](https://mobile.schmidhuberj.de/pipeline/), and it was the best YouTube experience I ever had. It has no shorts, no comments, no upvotes, no downvotes (YouTube doesn't either), no discovery algorithm-it's just your subscriptions on long-form videos in one inbox, which allowed me to fine-tune exactly what I wanted as my "algorithm," and it still has search, so I can find the videos I like, and a special Watch Later feature, which allows you to save videos for later. It is such an incredible app. The stability of this app is also really impressive, as platforms like [Invidious](https://invidious.io/) are quite unstable and go down all the time. I did just catch my first few days of "downtime" recently, but with the update after that, everything was solved. The theme is so beautiful too: nice GTK, works fast, and looks good. About that fast thing: it does take some time to fetch all of your subscriptions from YouTube, but that is so worth it. If you want, you can also point Pipeline at your own hosted Piped instance. Another fun thing: Pipeline also has support for the glorious Peertube, without an account! It's so nice-everyone with a Linux phone (that is what it was originally created for, as I learned from the super creative splash texts) or desktop should 100% [download](https://flathub.org/en/apps/de.schmidhuberj.tubefeeder) it now!
